NEXT-17540 - Documentations for App Flow Actions (#580)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/apps/administration/flow-builder/add-custom-flow-actions-from-app-system.md

# Add custom flow actions via App System

> 

Reviewer: Could you bring this into more of a "guide" structure - https://github.com/shopware/docs/blob/master/resources/guidelines/documentation/templates/guide-documentation-template.md

e.g. Explain what you're going to do + add a "prerequisites" and "next steps" section

Reviewer: Please use this as a reference - https://github.com/shopware/docs/pull/579/files#diff-0d6ef1b2b9c6863269597da0d12bd5cdbe8f322137e55f3b6d6e2e129ab870e6

Also, mention the version from which this feature is available as in the `{% hint style="info" %}` section of the referenced guide, please.

Reviewer: When you use codeblocks like `{% code title="manifest.xml %}, please also provide a filename.

Otherwise, just use triple backticks ` ``` ` to escape your code.

Besides the default actions, one extending way for the App System developer is adding more actions to the Flow Builder actions list via App System: 

![App Flow Action preview](../../../../../.gitbook/assets/flow-builder-app-action-preview.png)

> The app flow action can allow shopware to interact with your services or third services. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The app flow action can allow Shopware to interact with your or third-party services. 
```

Make sure you have knowledge about App System before starting to implement the App System integration.

{% page-ref page="../../../../../concepts/extensions/apps-concept.md" %}

## File structure

To get started with your app, create an apps folder inside the custom folder of your Shopware dev installation. In there, create another folder for your application, provide a manifest file, and so on.

```text
└── custom
    ├── apps
    │   └── FlowBuilderActionApp
    │       └── Resources
    │           └── flow-action.xml
    │           └── app-icon.png
    │           └── slack-icon.png
    │       └── manifest.xml
    └── plugins
```

* `FlowBuilderActionApp` :Your app technical name.

> * `app-icon.png`: Your icon app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `app-icon.png`: Your app's icon.
```

> * `slack-icon.png`: Your action icon will be defined for each action in the `flow-action.xml` file. (optional, because if you are not defined, the actions will get the fallback icons).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `slack-icon.png`: Your action icon will be defined for each action in the `flow-action.xml` file. (optional, icons will default to a fallback).
```

* `flow-action.xml`: Place to define your new actions.
* `manifest.xml`: Base information about your app.

## Manifest file

The manifest file is the central point of your app. It defines the interface between your app and the Shopware instance. It provides all the information concerning your app, as seen in the minimal version below:

{% code title="manifest.xml" %}
```xml
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<manifest xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/shopware/platform/trunk/src/Core/Framework/App/Manifest/Schema/manifest-1.0.xsd">
    <meta>
        <name>FlowBuilderActionApp</name>
        <label>Flow Builder Action App</label>
        <label lang="de-DE">Flow Builder Action App DE</label>
        <description>This is the example description for app</description>
        <description lang="de-DE">This is the example description for app</description>

>         <author>Barware team - Shopware Asia</author>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <author>shopware AG</author>
```

        <copyright>(c) Barware team - Shopware Asia</copyright>
        <version>4.14.0</version>
        <icon>Resources/app.png</icon>
        <license>MIT</license>
    </meta>
</manifest>
```
{% endcode %}

{% hint style="warning" %}
The name of your app that you provide in the manifest file needs to match the folder name of your app.
{% endhint %}

## Flow-action file

> To get the `action`, you need to define `<flow-action>` block, each `<flow-action>` represents one action, and you can define new `action` with a no limited number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create an action, you need to define a `<flow-action>` block. Each `<flow-action>` represents one action and you can define an arbitrary number of actions.
```

{% code title="flow-action.xml" %}
```xml
<flow-actions xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance" xsi:noNamespaceSchemaLocation="https://gitlab.shopware.com/shopware/6/product/platform/-/raw/next-19083/update-app-manifest-xsd-for-flow-action/src/Core/Framework/App/FlowAction/Schema/flow-action-1.0.xsd">
    <flow-action>
        ... # The first action
    </flow-action>
    <flow-action>
        ... # The second action
    </flow-action>
    <flow-action>
        ... # The third action
    </flow-action>
    ...
</flow-actions>
```
{% endcode %}

> Refer the [flow-action-1.0.xsd](https://gitlab.shopware.com/shopware/6/product/platform/-/raw/next-19083/update-app-manifest-xsd-for-flow-action/src/Core/Framework/App/FlowAction/Schema/flow-action-1.0.xsd) to coutinue define the other tag inside the `<flow-action>`.

Reviewer: This is an internal link

### Meta tag

{% code %}
```xml
<flow-action>
    <meta>
        <name>slack.send.message</name>
        <label>Send slack message</label>
        <label lang="de-DE">Send slack message</label>
        <badge>Slack</badge>
        <description>Slack send message description</description>
        <description lang="de-DE">Slack send message description DE</description>
        <url>https://hooks.slack.com/services/{id}</url>
        <sw-icon>default-communication-speech-bubbles</sw-icon>
        <icon>slack.png</icon>
        <requirements>orderAware</requirements>
        <requirements>customerAware</requirements>
    </meta>
    ...
</flow-action>
```
{% endcode %}

> | Key | Required | Description |

Reviewer: Please use yes/no in the "Required" column

| url | Required | The most impotant tag. This is place to define your services webhook. Shopware will interact with your services via this URL webhook.

### Header tag

{% code %}
```xml
<flow-action>
    <meta>
        ...
    </meta>
    <headers>
        <parameter type="string" name="content-type" value="application/json"/>
    </headers>
    ...
<flow-action>
 ```
{% endcode %}

Define the `parameter` for the URL header based on your URL webhook services.

### Parameter

{% code %}
```xml
<flow-action>
    <meta>
        ...
    </meta>
    <headers>
        ...
    </headers>
    <parameters>
        <parameter type="string" name="text" value="{{ message }} \n Order Number: {{ order.orderNumber }}"/>
    </parameters>
    ...
<flow-action>
 ```
{% endcode %}

Define the `parameter` for the URL body based on your URL webhook services.

> * `name`: The body key for your URL.

Reviewer: A table would be more readable here.

* `value`: The content message for your URL; free to design your content message here.
* `{{ message }}` : The variable on your `<input-field>` you will define on `flow-action.xml`.
* `{{ order.orderNumber }}`: For each trigger event, the action will have the variables suitable. In this case, the `checkout.order.placed` will have `order` variable.

### Input-field tag

{% code %}
```xml
<flow-action>
    <meta>
        ...
    </meta>
    <headers>
        ...
    </headers>
    <parameters>
        ...
    </parameters>
    <config>
        <input-field type="text">
            <name>message</name>
            <label>Message</label>
            <label lang="de-DE">Text DE</label>
            <place-holder>Enter Text...</place-holder>
            <place-holder lang="de-DE">Enter Text DE...</place-holder>
            <required>true</required>
            <helpText>Help Text</helpText>
            <helpText lang="de-DE">Help DE</helpText>
        </input-field>
    </config>
<flow-action>
```
{% endcode %}

> Define your input field attributes.

Reviewer: Missing space
```suggestion
Define your input field attributes.

```

> | Key | Required |

Reviewer: Also here, please yes / no in the required column.

| :--- | :--- |
| name | True |
| label | True |
| place-holder | False |
| required | False |
| helpText | False |

Define your input field type like ```<input-field type="text"> ```. Type is one of the types App Flow Action was supporting here: 

> {% code %}

Reviewer: Can this be a simple list or a table instead?

# Add custom flow actions via App System

{% hint style="info" %}
The App Flow Action is available in Shopware 6.4.10.0, and are not supported in previous versions.
{% endhint %}

Besides the default actions, one extending way for the App System developer is to add more actions to the Flow Builder actions list via App System:

![App Flow Action preview](../../../../../.gitbook/assets/flow-builder-app-action-preview.png)

The app flow action can allow shopware to interact with your third-party services. 

After reading, you will be able to

 * Create the basic setup of an app
 * Execute app scripts and use them to model custom logic

>  * Consume HTTP parameters and create responses

Reviewer: This does not seem correct.

## Prerequisites

> Please make sure you already have a working Shopware 6 instance running, and have a knowbase about `actions`, `trigger event`, `aware`, and so on from Flow Builder in Shopware 6.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please make sure you already have a working Shopware 6 store running (either cloud or self-managed). Prior knowledge about the Flow Builder feature of Shopware 6 is useful.
```
